By default, you can create up to 100 buckets in an AWS account, and that is a limit that AWS does not override without officially requesting for a service limit increase.

# S3 Features
Object-based storage / file based
Objects consist of a key / name and value / data
Can apply policies to buckets / folders and objects / files
Can limit access via IAM policies 
Lifecycle management
Versioning
Encrypting
Version id
Metadata
Torrent
Spread across multiple facilities
File can be 0 bytes to 5tb
Unlimited storage
Universal namespace
Url always starts with s3 and ends with amazonaws.com (sort of)
HTTP 200 if successful upload


# Storage Tiers / Classes
### S3 Standard

General purpose storage for any type of data, typically used for frequently accessed data.

    First 50 TB / Month	$0.023 per GB
    Next 450 TB / Month	$0.022 per GB
    Over 500 TB / Month	$0.021 per GB

### S3 - IA (Infrequently accessed)

For long lived but infrequently accessed data that needs millisecond access.

    All Storage / Month	$0.0125 per GB

### S3 One Zone - IA

For re-createable infrequently accessed data that needs millisecond access

    All Storage / Month	$0.01 per GB

### Intelligent Tiering

Automatic cost savings for data with unknown or changing access patterns.

    Frequent Access Tier, First 50 TB / Month	$0.023 per GB
    Frequent Access Tier, Next 450 TB / Month	$0.022 per GB
    Frequent Access Tier, Over 500 TB / Month	$0.021 per GB
    Infrequent Access Tier, All Storage / Month	$0.0125 per GB
    Monitoring and Automation, All Storage / Month	$0.0025 per 1,000 objects

### S3 Glacier

For long-term backups and archives with retrieval option from 1 minute to 12 hours

    All Storage / Month	$0.004 per GB

### S3 Glacier Deep Archive

For long-term data archiving that is accessed once or twice in a year and can be restored within 12 hours

    All Storage / Month	$0.00099 per GB

# Lifecylce Management


# AWS S3 Guarantees

* Built for 99.99% availability
* Amazon guarantees 99.9% availability (.09% / 1 nine less than what it was built for)
* Amazon guarantees 99.999999999% for durability of S3 information (Remember 11 nines!)

# Charges

* Storage
* Requests and Data Retrieval
* Data Transfer
* Management and Replication


# Amazon S3 data consistency model

### read-after-write consistency for PUTS of new objects


### eventual consitency for overrites and deletes

Amazon S3 provides read-after-write consistency for PUTS of new objects in your S3 bucket in all Regions with one caveat. The caveat is that if you make a HEAD or GET request to a key name before the object is created, then create the object shortly after that, a subsequent GET might not return the object due to eventual consistency.

Amazon S3 offers eventual consistency for overwrite PUTS and DELETES in all Regions.

Updates to a single key are atomic. For example, if you PUT to an existing key, a subsequent read might return the old data or the updated data, but it never returns corrupted or partial data.

Amazon S3 achieves high availability by replicating data across multiple servers within AWS data centers. If a PUT request is successful, your data is safely stored. However, information about the changes must replicate across Amazon S3, which can take some time, and so you might observe the following behaviors:

A process writes a new object to Amazon S3 and immediately lists keys within its bucket. Until the change is fully propagated, the object might not appear in the list.

A process replaces an existing object and immediately tries to read it. Until the change is fully propagated, Amazon S3 might return the previous data.

A process deletes an existing object and immediately tries to read it. Until the deletion is fully propagated, Amazon S3 might return the deleted data.

A process deletes an existing object and immediately lists keys within its bucket. Until the deletion is fully propagated, Amazon S3 might list the deleted object.

Bucket Policies (Bucket Level)
Access Control List (Object level)

### Access Control List (ACL)

A document that defines who can access a particular bucket or object. Each bucket   and object in Amazon S3 has an ACL. The document defines what each type of user can do, such as write and read permissions.